pages/publications.md, before:

---
title: Publications
nav: Publications
nav_order: 4
---
1.  Hajihassani, A., **Marquez**, J., Woldemeskel, M., and Hamidi, N. 2021. [Identification of four populations of Meloidogyne incognita in Georgia, USA capable of parasitizing tomato bearing Mi-1.2 gene](https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-05-21-0902-RE). Plant Disease 105 (accepted).

2. **Marquez**, J., Forghani, F., and Hajihassani, A. 2021. [First report of the root-knot nematode, Meloidogyne floridensis, on tomato in Georgia, USA](https://apsjournals.apsnet.org/doi/10.1094/PDIS-10-20-2286-PDN) Plant Disease 105.

3. **Marquez**, J., Severns, P.M. and Hajihassani, A. 2021. [The influence of the environment and vegetable cropping systems on plant-parasitic nematode communities in southern Georgia, USA. Plant Disease 105](https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-09-20-2019-RE). 

5. Hajihassani, A., Forghani, F., and **Marquez**, J. 2020. [Management of root-knot nematodes in watermelon in Georgia](https://secure.caes.uga.edu/extension/publications/files/pdf/B%201529_1.PDF). University of Georgia, Cooperative Extension Service, Bulletin 1529.

6.	Hamim, I., Borth, W. B., **Marquez**, J., Green, J. C., Melzer, M. J., and Hu, J. S. 2018. [Transgene-mediated resistance to Papaya ringspot virus: challenges and solutions](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12600-017-0636-4). Phytoparasitica 46:1-18.

7.	**Marquez**, J., Mitsuda, K., and Wang, K.-H. 2016. [Improving conservation tillage with conservation agriculture practices](https://cms.ctahr.hawaii.edu/soap/Hanai-Ai/ArtMID/40474/ArticleID/51/Volume-26-June-%7C-July-%7C-Aug-2016). Hanai’Ai volume 26, 2016.

8.	**Marquez**, J., Crow, S.E., Evensen, C. I., and Deenik, J.L. 2015. [Biochar increasing internal tolerance to manganese toxicity in a manganese-rich acid soil](https://scholarspace.manoa.hawaii.edu/handle/10125/61644). University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI. Honors project.

9.	**Marquez**, J. and Wang, K.-H. 2014. [Soil solarization as an organic pre-emergent weed management tactic](https://www.ctahr.hawaii.edu/site/info.aspx). CTAHR Extension Publication SA-14. 7 pp.

Commit message:

Add masters thesis as publication

pages/publications.md, after:

---
title: Publications
nav: Publications
nav_order: 4
---
1.  Hajihassani, A., **Marquez**, J., Woldemeskel, M., and Hamidi, N. 2021. [Identification of four populations of Meloidogyne incognita in Georgia, USA capable of parasitizing tomato bearing Mi-1.2 gene](https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-05-21-0902-RE). Plant Disease 105 (accepted).

2. **Marquez**, J., Forghani, F., and Hajihassani, A. 2021. [First report of the root-knot nematode, Meloidogyne floridensis, on tomato in Georgia, USA](https://apsjournals.apsnet.org/doi/10.1094/PDIS-10-20-2286-PDN) Plant Disease 105.

3. **Marquez**, J., Severns, P.M. and Hajihassani, A. 2021. [The influence of the environment and vegetable cropping systems on plant-parasitic nematode communities in southern Georgia, USA. Plant Disease 105](https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-09-20-2019-RE). 

5. Hajihassani, A., Forghani, F., and **Marquez**, J. 2020. [Management of root-knot nematodes in watermelon in Georgia](https://secure.caes.uga.edu/extension/publications/files/pdf/B%201529_1.PDF). University of Georgia, Cooperative Extension Service, Bulletin 1529.

6.	Hamim, I., Borth, W. B., **Marquez**, J., Green, J. C., Melzer, M. J., and Hu, J. S. 2018. [Transgene-mediated resistance to Papaya ringspot virus: challenges and solutions](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12600-017-0636-4). Phytoparasitica 46:1-18.

7. **Marquez**, J. Sipes B.S., Cheng Z., Wang, K.-H. 2017. [Evaluating Effects of No-Till Cover Cropping Systems on Indigenous Entomopathogenic Nematodes and Fungi](https://scholarspace.manoa.hawaii.edu/handle/10125/62815). University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI. M.S. Thesis.

8.	**Marquez**, J., Mitsuda, K., and Wang, K.-H. 2016. [Improving conservation tillage with conservation agriculture practices](https://cms.ctahr.hawaii.edu/soap/Hanai-Ai/ArtMID/40474/ArticleID/51/Volume-26-June-%7C-July-%7C-Aug-2016). Hanai’Ai volume 26, 2016.

9.	**Marquez**, J., Crow, S.E., Evensen, C. I., and Deenik, J.L. 2015. [Biochar increasing internal tolerance to manganese toxicity in a manganese-rich acid soil](https://scholarspace.manoa.hawaii.edu/handle/10125/61644). University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI. Honors project.

10.	**Marquez**, J. and Wang, K.-H. 2014. [Soil solarization as an organic pre-emergent weed management tactic](https://www.ctahr.hawaii.edu/site/info.aspx). CTAHR Extension Publication SA-14. 7 pp.
